U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration
Services
Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office
Date: NOV. 25, 2024	In Re: 34868620
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (National Interest Waiver)
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineer and researcher, seeks employment-based second preference
(EB-2) immigrant classification as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree, as well
as a national interest waiver of the job offer requirement attached to this classification. 	See
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(2), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(2).
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not
establish that the Petitioner merited a waiver of the job offer and labor certification requirements for
EB-2 classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3.
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence.
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review,
we will dismiss the appeal.
I. LAW
To qualify for the underlying EB-2 visa classification, a petitioner must establish they are an advanced
degree professional or an individual of exceptional ability in the sciences, arts, or business. 	Section
203(b)(2)(A) of the Act.
If a petitioner establishes eligibility for the underlying EB-2 classification, they must then demonstrate
that they merit a discretionary waiver of the job offer requirement "in the national interest."
Section 203(b )(2)(B)(i) of the Act. 	While neither the statute nor the pertinent regulations define the
term "national interest," Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884, 889 (AAO 2016), provides the
framework for adjudicating national interest waiver petitions. Dhanasar states that U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, as matter of discretion, 1 grant a national interest waiver if
the petitioner demonstrates that:
1 See Flores v. Garland, 72 F.4th 85 , 88 (5th Cir. 2023) (joining the Ninth, Eleventh, and D.C. Circuit Courts (and Third
in an unpublished decision) in concluding that USCIS ' decision to grant or deny a national interest waiver is discretionary
in nature).
-- 1 of 5 --
• 	The proposed endeavor has both substantial merit and national importance;
• 	The individual is well-positioned to advance their proposed endeavor; and
• 	On balance, waiving the job offer requirement would benefit the United States.
Id.
II. ANALYSIS
At the time of filing, the Petitioner proposed to continue his research into developing electric motors
and effective control algorithms to achieve efficiency and improve variable speed drives, robotics, and
electric vehicle applications through a post-doctoral fellowship at the 	_______ 	In
response to the request for evidence the Petitioner indicated he would seek a research position at a
prestigious research institution to perform the same research in a different setting.
The Petitioner initially described his proposed endeavor as follows:
Specifically, he will develop innovative rotor and stator lamination designs for
permanent-magnet assisted synchronous reluctance machines (PMASRMs) to enhance
efficiency and output torque capabilities, employ finite element analysis (FEA)
software like ANSYS Maxwell and FEMM 4.2 to examine how design variables
influence motor performance, 	develop 	advanced control algorithms to 	optimize
dynamic responses across various operational scenarios, create a motor prototype
utilizing contemporary manufacturing methods, including 3D metal additive printing,
CNC machining, and laser cutting, and publish original electrical engineering research
in peer-reviewed journals and conferences.
In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner states that he seeks to:
".... advance artificial intelligence integration in advanced motor design and controlling;
adopt metal additive technology to overcome challenges in rotor and stator lamination
manufacturing; and working to reduce parasitic capacitance to facilitate the integration
of high-frequency power drives for motor systems."
In addition, the Petitioner indicated that his research had the potential to provide far reaching economic
effects in the realm of electric motor efficiency saving "anywhere from 9% to 23% of the total
electricity consumption in the United States ... " 	The Petitioner argues that his combination of
education, publication and citation record, grant fonding, and record of past success makes him well
positioned to advance his proposed endeavor. The Petitioner also argues that is impractical for him to
complete labor certification and that it is in the best interest of the United States to waive the job offer
and labor certification requirements because his proposed endeavor is the subject of multiple national
initiatives in critical emerging technologies (CET).
A. Substantial Merit and National Importance
The first prong, substantial merit and national importance, focuses on the specific endeavor that the
individual proposes to undertake. The endeavor's merit may be demonstrated in a range of areas such
2
-- 2 of 5 --
as business, entrepreneurialism, science, technology, culture, health, or education. 	In determining
whether the proposed endeavor has national importance, we consider its potential prospective impact.
Id. at 889.
The Director determined that the Petitioner's proposed endeavor had substantial merit but that he had
not established that his proposed endeavor would have the economic or industry wide effects necessary
to rise to the level of national importance. 	On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not
fully consider the evidence provided or properly apply users policy as it relates to national interest
waivers in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) fields. 	The Petitioner provided
government reports, expert opinion letters, industry articles and evidence of a national science
foundation grant as evidence to support his contention that his research efforts are nationally
important.
The record supports the Petitioner's contention that his work on the efficiency of magnetic motors for
use in electric vehicles could have several positive effects on the economy and the environment. The
letter from R-M- 2, a Professor at the I 	Iwhere the Petitioner is a doctoral
candidate engaged in research, states that the Petitioner's contributions to the understanding of
permanent magnet assisted electric motors used in electric vehicles has the potential to increase
efficiency and decrease the cost of manufacturing resulting in real economic effects for both
consumers and manufacturers. 	The industry articles and research papers submitted by the Petitioner
in support of the national importance of his proposed endeavor identify several areas of concern in
relation to the mass adoption of electric vehicles, including the efficiency of electric motors.
We agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not appear to consider users policy as it relates to
individuals working in a STEM field with an advanced degree. While this policy does not equate to
an automatic approval of every STEM related petition, it does provide guidance on the evidentiary
weight that should be given to individuals working in fields of critical emerging technologies. Here,
the Petitioner has established that his work on permanent magnet electric motors is related to the
critical emerging technologies of Advanced Engineering Materials, Advanced Manufacturing, and
Renewable Energy Generation and Storage. 	As a result, we give his proposed endeavor to enhance
magnetic engine efficiency significant evidentiary weight.
Therefore, the record sufficiently establishes that the proposed endeavor could offer positive economic
effects and environmental consequences that reach beyond the Petitioner's research to affect the field of
electrical engineering more broadly, and therefore, the U.S. economy, due to the size and scope of the
electric vehicle industry and the potential applications of the Petitioner's research across multiple
disciplines. 	Given the importance of research into electric motor optimization, and the potentially
positive environmental and economic effects of the Petitioner's research, we find that the Petitioner's
proposed work has both substantial merit and national importance.
B. Well-Positioned to Advance the Proposed Endeavor
The second prong shifts the focus from the proposed endeavor to the individual. To determine whether
they are well-positioned to advance the proposed endeavor, we consider factors including, but not
2 We use initials to protect the privacy of individuals.
3
-- 3 of 5 --
limited to: 	their education, skills, knowledge and record of success in related or similar efforts; a
model or plan for future activities; any progress towards achieving the proposed endeavor; and the
interest of potential customers, users, investors, or other relevant entities or individuals. Id. at 890.
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that he was well-positioned to advance
his proposed endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director applied an incorrect standard
to the Petitioner's claim, did not give due weight to the submitted evidence, and misconstrued the
requirements of Dhanasar. 	The Petitioner argues that his education, skills, knowledge, record of
success, model for future activities, progress toward achieving his endeavor, and interest from
potential customers, users and relevant entities establishes that he is well-positioned to advance the
proposed endeavor. As stated above, we review the Petitioner's claim of eligibility de novo.
The Petitioner has established that he has the foreign equivalent of a U.S. master's degree and is
currently in a doctoral program in the United States. 	The Petitioner provides evidence of his past
research in the field of electrical engineering, copies of his research papers and presentations, copies
of research articles that cite to his work, a google scholar citation record, letters of support discussing
his prior research, and evidence related to his academic record. The Petitioner originally claimed that
he planned to pursue a post-doctoral research fellowship at the I 	Ito advance his
proposed endeavor. Following the Director's request for evidence the Petitioner stated that he would
seek a research position at a prestigious research institute rather than continue his research as a post
doctoral fellow. 	While the Petitioner claims he would seek a position with one of several research
institutes, he has not provided evidence that those organizations are interested in his services as a
researcher or in his research more generally to the point that they would be willing to fund any of his
future research activities. 	This change in the Petitioner's plan for future research activities and the
lack of evidence that the stated organizations are interested in his research casts doubt on his ability to
advance his proposed endeavor.
In our determination that Dhanasar was well-positioned under the second prong, we also weighed "the
sustained interest of and funding from government entities" for his proposed endeavor. Id. at 893. We
noted that, in making such a determination, we consider factors including interest of potential
customers, users, investors, or other relevant entities or individuals in the endeavor. Id. at 890. The
Petitioner cites to grant funding from the National Science Foundation as evidence that he is well
positioned to advance his proposed endeavor. 	However, this funding is directly tied to work being
done by a team of researchers at the 	_______ 	and would not follow the Petitioner if he
chose to take a research position for a new organization. Because the Petitioner has stated he intends
to continue his research elsewhere upon the conclusion of his degree, the evidence of a grant for the
_______ 	holds little evidentiary weight. The lack of detail regarding future funding for
his research after attaining his degree and the lack of specific details of where, when, and how the
Petitioner intends to take up his new position casts doubt on his ability to advance his proposed
endeavor.
The Petitioner also provided multiple letters of support from his peers attesting to the importance of
his work on electric motor design and his past success in developing a cost-efficient solar controller.
Specifically, the letters of support highlight the Petitioner's research article
cited by another research group. 	However, the majority of the letters focus on
4
-- 4 of 5 --
the Petitioner's work from 2011 when he developed a cost-efficient solar controller rather than
focusing on his current proposed endeavor in engineering new magnetic motor designs. 	We
acknowledge the letters of support and give them due weight regarding the Petitioner's past record of
success in electrical engineering. The Petitioner claims that his citation record demonstrates an interest
in his work and a level of success in advancing his proposed endeavor. While we acknowledge that
the Petitioner has published several articles and made presentations at industry conferences, his
citation record of four citations for his work on magnetic motors lacks sufficient context to establish
that his work is well-regarded within his specific area of research.
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner has conducted, published, and presented research during
his graduate studies but he has not shown that this work renders him well-positioned to advance his
proposed research. While we recognize that research must add information to the pool of knowledge
in some way in order to be accepted for publication, presentation, fonding, or academic credit, not
every individual who has performed original research will be found to be well-positioned to advance
his proposed endeavor. 	Rather, we examine the factors set forth in Dhanasar to determine whether,
for instance, the individual's progress towards achieving the goals of the proposed research, record of
success in similar efforts, or generation of interest among relevant parties supports such a finding. Id.
at 890. 	The Petitioner, however, has not sufficiently demonstrated that his published and presented
work has served as an impetus for progress in the electrical engineering field or that it has generated
substantial positive discourse in the electrical engineering community. 	Nor does the evidence
otherwise show that his work constitutes a record of success or progress in advancing research relating
to energy efficiency in electric vehicles robotics, or electric motors generally. 	As the record is
insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner is well-positioned to advance his proposed research
endeavor, he has not established that he satisfies the second prong of the Dhanasar framework.
C. Whether on Balance a Waiver is Beneficial
As explained above, the third prong requires the petitioner to demonstrate that, on balance, it would
be beneficial to the United States to waive the requirements of a job offer and thus of a labor
certification. 	Because the Petitioner has not established eligibility under the second prong of the
Dhanasar framework, we decline to reach and hereby reserve remaining arguments concerning
eligibility under the third prong. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that "courts
and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the
results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to
reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible).
As the Petitioner has not met the requisite second prong of the Dhanasar analytical framework, we
conclude that he has not established he is eligible for, or otherwise merits, a national interest waiver.
Thus, the appeal will be dismissed
ORDER: 	The appeal is dismissed.
5
-- 5 of 5 --
