Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
884
Matter of DHANASAR, Petitioner 
Decided December 27, 2016 
U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Administrative Appeals Office 
USCIS may grant a national interest waiver if the petitioner demonstrates: (1) that the 
foreign national’s proposed endeavor has both substantial merit and national importance; 
(2) that he  or she is  well positioned  to advance the  proposed endeavor; and (3)   that, on 
balance,  it  would  be  beneficial  to  the  United  States  to  waive  the  job  offer  and  labor 
certification requirements.  Matter of New York State Dep’t of Transp., 22 I&N Dec. 215 
(Acting Assoc. Comm’r 1998), vacated. 
ON  BEHALF  OF  PETITIONER:    Gerard  M.  Chapman,  Esquire,  Greensboro,  North 
Carolina 
In  this  decision,  we  have  occasion  to  revisit  the  analytical  framework 
for  assessing  eligibility  for  “national  interest  waivers”  under  section 
203(b)(2)(B)(i)   of   the   Immigration   and   Nationality   Act,   8   U.S.C  . 
§ 1153(b)(2)(B)(i) (2012).  The self -petitioner, a researcher and educator in 
the field of aerospace engineering, filed an immigrant visa petition seeking 
classification  under  section  203(b)(2)  of  the  Act  as  a  member  of  the 
professions  holding  an  advanced  degree.    The  petitioner  also  sought  a 
“national interest waiver” of the job offer otherwise required by section 
203(b)(2)(A).   
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition  under the 
existing  analytical  framework,  concluding  that  the  petitioner  qualifies  for 
classification  as  a  member  of  the  professions  holding  an  advanced  degree 
but that a waiver of the job offer requirement would not be in the national 
interest  of  the  United  States.    Upon  de  novo  review,  and  based  on  the 
revised national interest standard adopted herein, we will sustain the appeal 
and approve the petition. 
I.  LEGAL BACKGROUND 
Subparagraph  (A)  of  section  203(b)(2)  of  the  Act  makes  immigrant 
visas  available  to  “qualified  immigrants  who  are  members  of  the 
professions holding advanced degrees or their equivalent or who because of 
their exceptional ability in the sciences, arts, or   business, will substantially 
benefit   prospectively   the   national   economy,   cultural   or   educational 
Page (0) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
885
interests,  or  welfare  of  the  United  States.”    Under  subparagraph  (A), 
immigrant visas are available to such individuals only if their “services in 
the sciences, arts, professions, or business are sought by an employer in the 
United States.”   
Before  hiring  a  foreign  national  under  this  immigrant  classification,  an 
employer must first obtain a permanent labor certification from the U   nited 
States  Department  of  Labor  (“DOL”)  under  section  212(a)(5)(A)(i)  of  the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(5)(A)(i) (2012) .  See also  8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(4)(i)  
(2016).    A  labor  certification  demonstrates  that  DOL  has  determined  that 
there  are  not  sufficient  workers  who  are  able,  willing,  q   ualified,  and 
available at the place where the alien is to perform such skilled or unskilled 
labor, and the employment of such alien will not adversely affect the wages 
and working conditions of workers in the United States similarly employed.  
In  its  labor certification application, the employer must list the position’s 
job   requirements   consistent   with   what   is   normally   required   for   the 
occupation.    See  20  C.F.R.  §  656.17(h)(1)  (2016).    Moreover,  the  job 
requirements described on the labor certification app lication must represent 
the  actual  minimum  requirements  for  the  job  opportunity.   See  20  C.F.R. 
§   656.17(i)(1).      That   is,   the   employer   may   not   tailor   the   position 
requirements  to  the  foreign  worker’s  qualifications;  it  may  only  list  the 
position’s  minimum   requirements,   regardless  of  the  foreign  worker’s 
additional   skills   that   go   beyond   what   is   normally   required   for   the 
occupation.  The employer  must  then test the labor  market to determine if 
able,  willing,  or  qualified  U.S.  workers  are  available  with  the  advertised 
minimum qualifications.  If such  U.S. workers are found, the employer may 
not  hire  the  foreign  worker  for  the  position,  even  if  the  foreign  worker 
clearly  has  more  skills  (beyond  the  advertised  qualifications).    I   f  the 
employer  does  not  identify  such  U.S.  workers  and  DOL  determines  that 
those   workers   are   indeed   unavailable,   DOL   will   certify   the   labor 
certification.    After  securing  the  DOL -approved  labor  certification,  the 
employer  may  then  file  a  petition  with  DHS  requesting  the  immigrant 
classification.   
Under subparagraph (B) of section 203(b)(2), however, the Secretary of 
Homeland   Security   may   waive   the    requirement   of   a    “job  offer” 
(namely,  that the beneficiary’s services are sought by a U.S.  employer) 
and,  under  the  applicable  regulations, of  “a  labor certification.”  8  C.F.R. 
§  204.5(k)(4)(ii). 1
     That  subparagraph  states,  in  pertinent  part,  that  the 
1    While   appearing   to   limit  national   interest   waivers   to   only   aliens   possessing 
exceptional  ability  in  the  sciences,  arts,  or  business,  8  C.F.R.  §  204.5(k)(4)(ii)  was 
superseded in part by section 302(b)(2) of the Miscellaneous and Technical Immigration 
and  Naturalization  Amendments of  1991,  Pub.  L.  No.  102-232,  105  Stat.  1733,  1743 
(continued . . .) 
Page (1) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
886
Secretary “may, when the [Secretary] deems it to be in the national interest, 
waive the requirements of sub  paragraph (A) that an alien’s services in the 
sciences,  arts,  professions,  or  business  be  sought  by  an  employer  in  the 
United States.”2  Section 203(b)(2)(i) of the Act. 
USCIS may grant a national interest waiver as a matter of discretion if 
the petitioner   satisfies  both subparagraphs (A) and (B).   Thus, a petitioner 
who seeks a “national interest waiver” must first satisfy subparagraph (A) 
by   demonstrating   that   the   beneficiary   qualifies   as   a   member   of   the 
professions    holding    an    advanced    degree    or    as    an    individual    of 
exceptional  ability.   See  8  C.F.R.  §  204.5(k)(1)–(3)  (providing  definitions 
and  considerations  for  making  such  determinations);     see  also   section 
203(b)(2)(C)  of  the  Act (providing  that  possession  of  requisite  academic 
degree  or  professional  license “shall not by itself be considered sufficient 
evidence  of  exceptional  ability”).    The  petitioner  must  then  satisfy 
subparagraph  (B)  by  establishing  that  it  would  be  in  the  national  interest 
to  waive  the  “job  offer”  requirement  under  subparagraph  (A).3    See 
8  C.F.R.  §  204.5(k)(4)(ii).    This  two-part  statutory  scheme  is  relatively 
straightforward, but the term “national interest” is ambiguous.  Undefined 
by statute and regulation, “national interest” is a broad concept subject to 
various interpretations.  
In  1998,  under  the  legacy  Immigration  and  Naturalization  Service,  we 
issued   a   precedent   decision   establishing   a   framework   for   evaluating 
national  interest  waiver  petitions .    Matter  of  New  York  State  Dep’t  of 
Transp.  (“NYSDOT”),  22  I&N  Dec.  215  (Acting  Assoc. Comm’r 1998).  
_______________________________ 
(“MTINA”).   Section  302(b)(2)  of  MTINA  amended  section  203(b)(2)(B)(i)  of  the  Act 
by inserting the word “professions” after the word “arts,” and thereby made  the national 
interest  waiver  available  to  members  of  the  professions  holding  advanced  degrees  in 
addition to individuals of exceptional ability. 
2
      Pursuant to section 1517 of the Homeland Security Act 
(“HSA”) of 2002, Pub. L. No. 
107-296, 116 Stat. 2135, 2311 (codified at 6 U.S.C. § 557 (2012)), any r    eference to the 
Attorney  General  in  a  provision  of  the  Act  describing  functions  that  were  transferred 
from  the  Attorney  General  or  other  Department  of Justice  official  to  the  Department  of 
Homeland Security by the HSA “shall be deemed to refer to the Secretary” of Homeland 
Security.  See also 6 U.S.C. § 542 note (2012); 8 U.S.C. § 1551 note (2012). 
3
To  do  so,  a  petitioner  must  go  beyond  showing  the  individual’s  expertise  in  a 
particular field.  The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(2) defines “exceptional ability” as 
“a degree of expertise significantly above that ordinarily encountered” in a given area of 
endeavor.    By  statute,  individuals  of  exceptional  ability  are  generally  subject to the  job 
offer/labor  certification  requirement;  they  are  not  exempt  by virtue  of  their  exceptional 
ability.    Therefore,  whether  a  given  petitioner  seeks  classification  as  an  individual  of 
exceptional ability, or as a member of the  professions  holding an  advanced degree, that 
individual  cannot  qualify  for  a  waiver   just  by  demonstrating  a  degree  of  expertise 
significantly above that ordinarily encountered in his field of expertise. 
Page (2) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
887
The NYSDOT framework looks first to see if a petitioner has shown that the 
area of employment is of “substantial intrinsic merit.”  Id. at 217.  Next, a 
petitioner must establish that any proposed benefit from the individual’s 
endeavors will be “national in scope.”  Id.  Finally,  the  petitioner  must 
demonstrate that the national interest would be adversely affected if a labor 
certification were required for the foreign national.  Id. 
Based on our experience with that decision in the i ntervening period, we 
believe it is now time for a reassessment.  While the first prong has held up 
under adjudicative experience, the term “intrinsic” adds little to the analysis 
yet  is  susceptible  to  unnecessary  subjective  evaluation. 4
     Similarly,  the 
se  cond  prong  has  caused  relatively  few  problems  in  adjudications,                                                              but    
occasionally 
the term “national in scope” is  construed  too  narrowly  by 
focusing   primarily   on   the   geographic   impact   of   the   benefit.      While 
NYSDOT found a civil engineer’s employment to be national in scope even 
though  it  was  limited  to  a  particular  region,  that  finding  hinged  on  the 
geographic connections between New York’s bridges and roads and the 
national   transportation   system.      Certain   locally   or   regionally   focused 
endeavors, however,  may be of national importance despite being difficult 
to quantify with respect to geographic scope.   
What   has   generated   the   greatest   confusion   for   petitioners   and 
adjudicators,  however,  is  NYSDOT’s  third  prong.    F irst,  this  prong  is 
explained  in  several  different  ways  within   NYSDOT  itself,  leaving  the 
reader uncertain  what  ultimately  is the  relevant inquiry.   We initially  state 
the  third  prong  as  requiring  a petitioner to “demonstrate that the national 
interest would be adversely affected if a labor certification were required.”  
NYSDOT,  22  I&N  Dec. at  217.  We  then  alternatively  describe  the  third 
prong   as   requiring   the   petitioner   to   demonstrate   that   the   individual 
“present[s] a national benefit so great as to outweigh the national interest 
inherent  in  the  labor  certification  process.”   Id.  at  218.    Immediately 
thereafter, we restate the third prong yet again : the petitioner must establish 
that the individu al will  “serve the national interest to a substantially greater 
degree  than  would  an  available  U.S.  worker  having  the  same  minimum 
qualifications.”5   Id.  Finally,  in  what  may  be  construed  as  either  a  fourth 
restatement of prong three or as an explanation of how to satisfy it, we state 
that “it clearly must be established that the alien’s past record justifies 
projections of future benefit to the national interest.”  Id. at 219.  A footnote 
4    Cf.,  e.g.,  24/7 Records, Inc. v. Sony Music Entm’t, Inc.,  514  F.  Supp.  2d  571,  575 
(S.D.N.Y. 2007) (“‘Intrinsic value’ is an inherently subjective and speculative concept.”).
5    Other,  slight  variations  of  the  third  prong  emerge  later  in  the  decision    .     See 
NYSDOT,  22  I&N  at  220  (“to a greater extent than U.S. workers”);  see  also  id.  at  221 
(“considerably outweigh”). 
Page (3) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
888
to this statement clarifies that   USCIS seeks “a past history of demonstrable 
achievement with some degree of influence on the field as a whole.”  Id. at 
219 n.6.   Although residing in footnote   6, this “influence” standard  has in 
practice   become   the   primary   yardstick   against   which   petitions   are 
measured.6
Second,  and              a  more         fundamental  challenge                       than       pars    ing  its  several 
re  statements         , 
NYSDOT’s  third  prong  can  be  misinterpreted  to  require  the 
petitioner  to  submit,  and  the  adjudicator  to  evaluate,  evidence  relevant  to 
the  very  labor  market  test  that  the  waiver  is  intended  to forego.   The  first 
iteration  of  prong  three,  that  the  national  interest  would  be  adversely 
affected  if  a  labor  certification  were  required,  implies  that    petitioners 
should submit evidence of harm to the national interest.   The third iteration, 
that the individual will serve the national interest to a substantially  greater 
degree  than  would  an  available U.S.  worker  having  the  same  minimum 
qualifications,  suggests  that  petitioners  should  submit  evidence  comparing 
foreign nationals to unidentified U.S. workers.  These concepts have proven 
to be difficult for many  qualified individuals to establish or analyze in the 
abstract.    It  has  proven  particularly  ill   -suited  for  USCIS  to  evaluate 
petitions   from   self-employed   individuals,   such   as   entrepreneurs.      In 
NYSDOT,  we  even  “acknowledge[d]  that  there  are  certain  occupations 
wherein  individuals  are  essentially  self-employed,  and  thus  would  have 
no  U.S.  employer  to  apply  for  a  labor  certification.”   Id.  at  218  n.5.  
Nonetheless,  we  did  not  modify  the  test  to  resolve  this  scenario,  which 
continues  to  challenge  petitioners  and  USCIS  adjudicators.    Lastly,  this 
concept  of  harm-to-national-interest  is  not  required  by,  and  unnecessarily 
narrows, the Secretary’s broad discretionary authority to grant a waiver 
when he “deems it to be in the national interest.” 
II.  NEW ANALYTICAL FRAMEWORK 
Accordingly,  our  decision  in NYSDOT  is  ripe  for  revision.    Today,  we 
vacate  NYSDOT  and  adopt  a  new  framework  for  adjudicating  national 
interest  waiver  petitions,  one  that  will  provide  greater  clarity,  apply  more 
flexibly to circumstances of both petitioning employers and self -petitioning 
6    While this “influence” standard rests upon the reasonable notion that past success will 
often predict future benefit, our adjudication experience in the years since   NYSDOT has 
revealed  that  there  are  some  talented  individuals  for  whom  past  achievements  are  not 
necessarily the best or only predictor of future success.
Page (4) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
889
individuals,  and  better  advance  the  purpose  of  the  broad  discretionary 
waiver provision to benefit the United States.7
Under  the  new  framework,  and  after  eligibility  for  EB                                           - 2  classification 
has  been  established,  USCIS  may  grant  a  national  interest  waiver  if                                                             the 
petitioner  demonstrates  by                         a  preponderance  of  the  evidence                           :
8
  (1)  that  the 
foreign  national’s  proposed  endeavor  has  both  substantial  merit  and 
national  importance;  (2)  that  the  foreign  national  is  well  positioned  to 
advance  the  proposed  endeavor;  and  (3)  that,  on  balance,  it  would  be 
beneficial to the United States  to waive the requirements of a job offer and 
thus  of  a  labor  certification.    If  these  three  elements  are  satisfied,  USCIS 
may approve the national interest waiver as a matter of discretion. 9
The  first  prong,  substantial  merit  and  national  importance,  focu                                                    ses  on 
the specific endeavor that the foreign national proposes to undertake.  The 
endeavor’s merit may be demonstrated in a range of areas such as business, 
entrepreneurialism,   science,   technology,   culture,   health,   or   education.  
Evidence   that   the   endeavor   has   the   potential   to   create   a   significant 
economic impact may be favorable but is not required, as an endeavor’s 
merit  may  be  established  without  immediate  or  quantifiable  economic 
impact.   For example,  endeavors related to research, pure science, and th  e 
furtherance of human knowledge may qualify, whether or not the potential 
accomplishments  in  those  fields  are  likely  to  translate  into  economic 
benefits for the United States.   
In determining whether the proposed endeavor has national importance, 
we  consider  its  potential  prospective  impact.    An  undertaking  may  have 
national  importance  for  example,  because  it  has  national  or  even  global 
implications  within  a  particular  field,  such  as those  resulting  from  certain 
improved  manufacturing  processes  or  medical  advances.    But  we  do  not 
evaluate  prospective  impact  solely  in  geographic  terms.    Instead,  we  look 
for broader implications.  Even ventures and undertakings that have as their 
focus one geographic area of the United States may properly be considered 
to  have national importance.  In modifying this prong to assess “national 
7    Going forward, we will use “petitioners” to include both employers who have filed 
petitions  on  behalf  of  employees  and  individuals  who  have  filed  petitions  on  their  own 
behalf (namely, self-petitioners). 
8
Under the “preponderance of the evidence” standard, a petitioner must establish that 
he  or  she  more  likely  than  not  satisfies  the  qualifying  elements.   Matter  of  Chawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010).  We will consider not only the quantity, but also the 
quality (including relevance, probative value, and credibility) of the evidence.  Id.  
9
Because the national interest waiver is “purely discretionary,” Schneider  v.  Chertoff, 
450 F.3d 944, 948 (9th Ci r. 2006), the petitioner also must show that the foreign national 
otherwise merits a favorable exercise of discretion.    See Zhu v. Gonzales , 411 F.3d 292, 
295 (D.C. Cir. 2005); cf. Matter of Jean, 23 I&N Dec. 373, 383 (A.G. 2002).
Page (5) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
890
importance” rather than “national in scope,” as used in NYSDOT,  we seek 
to  avoid  overemphasis  on  the  geographic  breadth  of  the  endeavor.    An 
endeavor that has significant potential to emp loy U.S. workers or has other 
substantial   positive   economic   effects,   particularly   in   an   economically 
depressed  area,  for  instance,  may  well  be  understood  to  have  national 
importance.  
The  second  prong  shifts  the  focus  from  the  proposed  endeavor  to  the 
foreign  national.    To  determine  whether  he  or  she  is  well  positioned  to 
advance  the  proposed  endeavor,  we  consider  factors  including,  but  not 
limited  to:  the  individual’s  education,  skills,  knowledge  and  record  of 
success  in  related  or  similar  efforts;  a  model  or  plan  for  future  activities; 
any progress towards achieving the proposed  endeavor; and the interest of 
potential   customers,   users,   investors,   or   other   relevant   entities   or 
individuals. 
We recognize  that forecasting feasibility  or future success  may  present 
challenges  to  petitioners  and  USCIS  officers,  and  that  many  innovations 
and  entrepreneurial  endeavors  may  ultimately  fail,  in  whole  or  in  part, 
despite an intelligent plan and competent execution.  We do not, therefore, 
require petitioners to demonstra te that their endeavors are more likely than 
not to ultimately succeed.  But notwithstanding this inherent uncertainty, in 
order  to  merit  a  national  interest  waiver,  petitioners  must  establish,  by  a 
preponderance of the evidence, that they are well positio ned to advance the 
proposed endeavor.   
The third prong requires the petitioner to demonstrate that, on balance, it 
would be beneficial to the United States to waive the requirements of a job 
offer  and  thus  of  a  labor  certification.    On  the  one  hand,  Congress  clearly 
sought  to  further  the  national  interest  by  requiring  job  offers  and  labor 
certifications  to  protect  the  domestic  labor  supply.    On  the  other  hand,  by 
creating  the  national  interest  waiver,  Congress  recognized  that  in  certain 
cases   the   benefits   inherent   in   the   labor   certification   process   can   be 
outweighed  by  other  factors  that  are  also  deemed  to  be  in  the  national 
interest.  Congress entrusted the Secretary to balance these interests within 
the context of individual national interest waiver adjudications.    
In  performing  this  analysis,   USCIS  may  evaluate  factors  such  as:    
whether, in light of the nature of the foreign national’s qualifications or 
proposed endeavor, it would be impractical either for the foreign national to 
secure  a  job  offer  or  for  the  petitioner  to  obtain  a  labor  certification; 10
10  For example, the labor  certification process may prevent a petitioning employer from 
hiring a foreign national with unique knowledge or skills that are not easily articulated in 
a  labor  certification.   See  generally  20  C.F.R.  §  656.17(i).    Likewise,  because  of  the 
nature   of   the  proposed   endeavor,   it   may   be   impractical   for   an   entrepreneur   or 
(continued . . .) 
Page (6) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
891
whether, even assuming that other qualified U .S. workers are available,  the 
United  States  would still benefit from the foreign national’s contributions; 
and whether the national interest in the foreign national’s contributions is 
sufficiently  urgent  to  warrant forgoing the labor certification process.   We 
emphasize that, in each case , the factor(s) considered must, taken together, 
indicate that on balance, it would be beneficial to the United States to waive 
the requirements of a job offer and thus of a labor certification.  
We  note  that  this  new  prong,  unlike  the  third  prong  of NYSDOT,  does 
not  require  a  showing  of  harm  to  the  national  interest  or  a  comparison 
against  U.S.  workers  in  the  petitioner’s  field.    As  stated  previously, 
NYSDOT’s  third  prong was  especially  problematic  for  certain  petitioners, 
such  as  entrepreneurs  and  self-employed  individuals.    This  more  flexible 
test, which can be  met in a range of ways as described above, is  meant to 
apply to a greater variety of individuals.  
III.  ANALYSIS 
The  director  found  the  petitioner  to  be  qualified  for  the  classification 
sought by virtue of his advanced degrees.  We agree that he holds advanced 
degrees and therefore qualifies under section 203(b)(2)(A).  The remaining 
issue   before   us   is   whether   the   petitioner   has   established,   by   a 
preponderance of the evidence, that he is eligible for and me   rits a national 
interest waiver.  
The petitioner proposes to engage in research and development relating 
to   air   and   space   propulsion   systems,   as   well   as   to   teach   aerospace 
engineering, at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University 
(“North  Carolina  A&T”).  The  petitioner  holds  two  master  of  science  
degrees,  in  mechanical  engineering  and  in  applied  physics,  as  well  as  a 
Ph.D. in engineering, from North Carolina A&T.  At the time of filing the 
instant  petition,  he  also  worked  as  a  postdoctoral research  associate  at  the 
university.    The  record  reflects  that  the  petitioner’s  graduate  and 
postgraduate   research   has   focused   on   hypersonic   propulsion   systems 
(systems  involving  propulsion  at  speeds  of  Mach  5  and  above)  and  on 
computational fluid dynamics.  He has developed a validated computational 
model  of  a  high-speed  air-breathing  propulsion  engine,  as  well  as  a  novel 
numerical  method  for  accurately  calculating  hypersonic  air  flow.    The 
petitioner intends to continue his research at the university.  
The  extensive  record  includes:  reliable  evidence  of  the  petitioner’s 
credentials;  copies  of  his  publications  and  other  published  materials  that 
_______________________________ 
self-employed inventor, when advancing an endeavor on his or her own, to secure a job 
offer from a U.S. employer. 
Page (7) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
892
cite his work; evidence of his membership in professional associations; and 
documentation   regarding   his   research   a nd   teaching   activities.      The 
petitioner also submitted several letters from individuals who   establish their 
own expertise in aerospace  ,  describe  the petitioner’s research in detail and 
attest to his expertise in the field of hypersonic propulsion systems. 
We determine that the petitioner is eligible for a national interest waiver 
under  the  new  framework.    First,  we  conclude  that  the  petitioner  has 
established  both  the  substantial  merit  and  national  importance  of  his 
proposed endeavor.  The petitioner demonstrated that he intends to continue 
research   into   the   design   and   development   of   propulsion   systems   for 
potential  use  in  military  and  civilian  technologies  such  as  nano-satellites, 
rocket-propelled  ballistic  missiles,  and  single-stage-to-orbit  vehicles.    In 
letters  supporting  the  petition,  he  describes  how  research  in  this  area 
enhances our national security and defense by allowing the United States to 
maintain  its  advantage  over  other  nations  in  the  field  of  hypersonic  flight.  
We find that this proposed res earch has substantial merit because it aims to 
advance  scientific  knowledge  and  further  national  security  interests  and 
U.S. competitiveness in the civil space sector. 
The record further demonstrates that the petitioner’s proposed endeavor 
is of national i mportance.  The petitioner submitted probative expert letters 
from  individuals  holding  senior  positions  in  academia,  government,  and 
industry that describe the importance of hypersonic propulsion research as 
it  relates  to U.S.  strategic  interests.    He  also  provided  media  articles  and 
other evidence documenting the interest of the House Committee on Armed 
Services  in  the  development  of  hypersonic  technologies  and  discussing 
the  potential  significance  of  U.S.  advances  in  this  area  of  research  and 
development.    The  letters  and  the  media  articles  discuss  efforts  and 
advances that other countries are currently making in the area of hypersonic 
propulsion  systems  and  the  strategic  importance  of U.S.  advancement  in 
researching and developing these technologies for use in missiles, satellites, 
and aircraft. 
Second,  we  find  that  the  record  establishes  that  the  petitioner  is  well 
positioned   to   advance   the   proposed   endeavor.      Beyond   his   multiple 
graduate degrees in relevant fields, the petit ioner has experience conducting 
research and developing computational  models that support the   mission of 
the   United   States   Department   of   Defense   (“DOD”)   to   develop   air 
superiority  and  protection  capabilities  of  U.S.  military  forces,  and  that 
assist   in   the   development   of   platforms   for   Earth   observation   and 
interplanetary  exploration.  The petitioner  submitted detailed expert  letters 
describing U.S. Government interest and investment in his research, and the 
record  includes  documentation  that  the  petitioner  played  a  significant  role 
in  projects  funded  by  grants  from  the  National  Aeronautics  and  Space 
Page (8) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
893
Administration   ( “NASA”)   and   the   Air   Force   Research   Laboratories 
(“AFRL”)   within   DOD.11
     Thus,         the   significance   of   the   petit
ioner’s 
research  in  his  field is  corroborated  by evidence  of  peer  and  government 
interest in  his research, as well as by  consistent government funding of the 
petitioner’s research projects.  The petitioner’s education, experience, and 
expertise  in  his field,  the  significance  of  his  role  in  research  projects,  as 
well as the sustained interest of and funding from government entities such 
as NASA and AFRL, position him well to continue to advance his proposed 
endeavor of hypersonic technology research. 
Third and finally, we conclude that, on balance, it would be beneficial to 
the  United  States  to  waive  the  requirements  of  a  job  offer  and  thus  of  a 
labor  certification.    As  noted  above,  the  petitioner  holds  three  graduate 
degrees in fields tied to the propose d endeavor, and the record demonstrates 
that   he   possesses   considerable   experience   and   expertise   in   a   highly 
specialized  field.    The  evidence  also  shows  that  research  on  hypersonic 
propulsion  holds  significant  implications  for  U.S.  national  security  and 
competitiveness.  In addition, the repeated funding of research in which the 
petitioner  played  a  key  role  indicates  that  government  agencies,  including 
NASA and the DOD, have found his work on this topic to be promising and 
useful.  Because of his record of s uccessful research in an area that furthers 
U.S. interests, we find that this petitioner offers contributions of such value 
that,  on  balance,  they  would  benefit  the  United  States  even  assuming  that 
other qualified U.S. workers are available. 
In  addition  to  conducting  research,  the  petitioner  proposes  to  support 
teaching activities in science, technology, engineering, and math ( “STEM”) 
disciplines.  He submits letters favorably attesting to his teaching abilities at 
the   university   level   and   evidence   of   his   participation   in   mentorship 
programs   for   middle   school   students.      While   STEM   teaching   has 
substantial  merit  in  relation  to U.S.  educational  interests,  the  record  does 
not indicate by a preponderance of the evidence that the petitioner would be 
engaged  in  ac tivities  that  would  impact  the  field  of  STEM  education 
more  broadly.    Accordingly,  as  the  petitioner  has  not  established  by  a 
preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  his  proposed  teaching  activities  meet 
the “national importance” element of the first prong of the new framework, 
we  do  not  address  the  remaining  prongs  in  relation  to  the  petitioner’s 
teaching activities. 
11  Although  the  director  of  North  Carolina  A&T’s  Center  for  Aerospace  Research 
(“CAR”)  is  listed  as  the  lead  principal  investigator  on  all  grants  for  CAR  research,  the 
record establishes that the petitioner initiated or is the primary award contact on several 
funded grant proposals and that he is the only listed researcher on many of the grants. 
Page (9) Break
Cite as 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016)                                             Interim Decision #38 82  
894
IV.  CONCLUSION 
The  record  demonstrates  by  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence  that:  
(1)  the petitioner’s research in aerospace engineering has both substantial 
merit  and  national  importance;  (2)  the  petitioner  is  well  positioned  to 
advance  his  research;  and  (3)  on  balance,  it  is  beneficial  to  the  United 
States  to  waive  the  requirements  of  a    job  offer  and  thus  of  a  labor 
certification.  We find that the petitioner has established eligibility for and 
otherwise merits a national interest waiver as a matter of discretion.   
In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner’s burden to establish 
eligibility  for  the  immigration  benefit  sought.    Section  291  of  the  Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361 (2012).  The petitioner has met that burden.  
ORDER:  The appeal is sustained and the petition is approved.   
Page (10) Break
